{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13860\viewh17120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Editor-in-Chief,\
\
Thank you for the thoughtful comments on our manuscript.  After careful review of the feedback provided, we have come to the conclusion that the Editorial Board Member assigned to this paper may have misunderstood some critical aspects of the work, and we would therefore like to appeal the rejection recommendation.  Below we enumerate comments from the Editorial Board Member (in bold) that seem to be at odds with the content of the document and provide responses that address these concerns. \
\
Why would we emphasize this speculative work?\
\
It is not entirely clear why the Editorial Board Member believes this work to be \'93speculative,\'94 but the work is affirmatively non-speculative in at least two distinct ways:\
\
(1) The manuscript contains a proof of universal consistency of a k-nearest-neighbor classifier on graphs, which is the first (to our knowledge) proof of any universally consistent classifier on graphs.  This is a result of general interest to the mathematical communities that study network problems and graph theory, and is entirely non-speculative.\
\
(2) The notion of \'93epsilon-supervenience\'94 proposed in this manuscript is aimed at providing a method for empirically testing the extent to which supervenience holds.  This, too, is non-speculative, insofar as epsilon supervenience (and variations thereof) can be tested on existing data with existing methods.   \
\
This work seems to place great emphasis in the idea that mental properties could be 100% perfectly a function only of the connectome.\
\
It appears that the Editorial Board Member misunderstood the core principle of our theory of \'93epsilon-supervenience\'94.  This concept is explicitly designed to address the fact that no mental properties are likely to be \'93100% perfectly a function only of the connectome.\'94  Indeed, we provide a basis for testing the extent to which any given mental property is a function of the connectome, with epsilon-level uncertainty.  In other words, if a given mental property is only \'9391% predictive of a given mental property,\'94 epsilon-supervenience will be able to detect this relationship, in contrast to the assertion of the Editorial Board Member.  Perhaps this fact was overlooked because of our notation, which could easily be modified in a future draft.\
\
Why [is] the connectome not a mixture of connections of various degrees of relevance to a given mental property, many of which are simply misleading?\
\
The Editorial Board Member is correct that the connectome contains a superset of information, of which only a small fraction is relevant to a given mental property.  Indeed, this is the foundation upon which this work is based, namely: statistical inference on the connectome graph is required to identify the connections of relevance to a given mental property.  The ability to identify these connections is shown to be theoretically possible in all cases, regardless of the connections involved or the given mental property, by our proof of a universally-consistent classifier on graphs.  In addition, the ability to identify these connections is shown to be practically possible in the case of the C. elegans connectome by way of simulation.\
\
If this paper were addressing an issue that many biologists believe fervently in and, the paper were correcting a prominent reasoning fallacy, I could see a publishing mission for PNAS.\
\
We contend that the entire field of connectomics is founded on the unstated assumption of mind-brain supervenience, which implies that it is indeed a belief held by many biologists, neuroscientists, engineers, mathematicians, and the government agencies who fund their work.  In this manuscript, we propose a statistical test to empirically evaluate the supervenience hypothesis, as opposed to merely assuming supervenience, and therefore believe that there is a strong publishing mission for PNAS.\
\
In conclusion, we respectfully disagree with the assessment of the Editorial Board Member assigned to this paper. Although (s)he she raises valid concerns, they are all addressed within the content of the manuscript.  Consequently, we conclude that this individual misunderstood the work and is not well suited to review this paper.  To ensure that we receive a fair review and that PNAS have the opportunity to publish what we believe to be a very strong contribution to many fields of inquiry, we request that this paper be reassessed by a different Editorial Board Member or, preferably, submitted for peer review.  Upon request, we would be happy to provide the names of unbiased individuals who are qualified to review this material.\
\
Sincerely,\
\
Joshua Vogelstein, Jacob Vogelstein, and Carey Priebe}