{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9540\viewh11000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Editorial Board Member's Remarks to Author: \
\
I feel that this work is simply too speculative for PNAS. \
\
It is well argued, and well written, but in the end, particularly because of its biological emphasis we have to say: of the many thousands of biological submissions all with hard data and careful empirical work, why would we emphasize this speculative work? \
\
For example, this work seems to place great emphasis in the idea that mental properties could be 100% perfectly a function only of the connectome. Suppose the best function of the connectome is only 91% predictive of a given mental property (and why not?). Then the small-eps supervenience is not useful. Why should we even believe there are *any* features with 100% predictivity? \
\
Also, it is very unclear to me why the connectome is not a mixture of connections of various degrees of relevant to a given mental property, many of which are simply misleading. Maybe someday we will have a clear picture of links we can ignore, but we don't today. Until then, treating all connections on an equal footing and emphasizing holistic connection properties may be simply holding us back. \
\
If this paper were addressing an issue that many biologists believe fervently in and, the paper were correcting a prominent reasoning fallacy, I could see a publishing mission for PNAS. Otherwise, I feel the paper doesn't exhibit a high enough ratio of sweat to print pages, compared to other submission we get. \
\
I recommend rejection.}